翁紹珉（獅 ） / Leo Weng 
得體設計建築師事務所 創辦⼈
學歷 1991 臺北市建國中學 1996 淡江⼤學建築學⼠ 2000 英國倫敦⼤學巴特雷學院建築碩⼠。
專業 美國紐約州註冊建築師。台灣註冊建築師。
教學 2001-2003 淡江⼤學建築系設計課 中原 台科⼤課評 Archigram國際建築營
展覽 2012 國家⽂官學院個⼈建築展 2013 台南總爺⽂化中⼼建築展 2016上海nana⼤房⼦個⼈建築展
國際設計榮譽：228公園與萬華406 國際競圖佳作 2010上海世博會阿曼國家館國際招標第⼆名 ⽇本JCD 
設計⼤賞（與臺灣龍采合作）湖南株洲天元區政中⼼招標⾸獎，揚州京華城招標第⼀名 （與上海合院合
作） 中國民族建築協會 設計影響⼒⼈物，2019 淡江⼤學建築系傑出系友。作品遍及海峽兩岸，⾹港 ，
柬埔寨，泰國....等
建築刊物發表 2003 MVRDV 建築師雜誌 2017台灣建築 2016台灣建築 vol200
JUSTARCHI / WENG SHI ARCHITECTS - Founder
Education
• 1991: Taipei City Jianguo High School
• 1996: Bachelor of Architecture, Tamkang University
• 2000: Master of Architecture, Bartlett School of Architecture, University College London, UK.
Professional
• Registered Architect, New York State, USA
• Registered Architect, Taiwan
Teaching Experience
• 2001-2003: Design Courses, Department of Architecture, Tamkang University
• Zhongyuan University of Technology, National Taiwan University of Science and Technology
• Archigram International Architecture Workshop
Exhibitions
• 2012: Solo Architecture Exhibition, National Civil Servants Training Institute
• 2013: Solo Architecture Exhibition, Tainan Zongye Cultural Center
• 2016: Solo Architecture Exhibition, Shanghai Nana Grand House
International Design Honors
• 228 Park and Wanhua 406: International Design Competition Award
• 2010: Second Place, International Tender for Oman Pavilion, Shanghai Expo
• Japan JCD Design Award (in collaboration with Taiwan Longcai)
• First Prize, Tender for Hunan Zhuzhou Tianyuan District Government Center
• First Prize, Tender for Yangzhou Jinghua City (in collaboration with Shanghai He Yuan)
• Recognized as a "Design Influential Figure" by the China National Architecture Association
• 2019: Outstanding Alumni, Department of Architecture, Tamkang University
Publications in Architectural Journals
• 2003: MVRDV Architects Magazine
• 2017: Taiwan Architecture
• 2016: Taiwan Architecture Vol. 200
Miaoli
South Taiwan
Hongkong
Guangzhou JiangMen
Shanghai
Urumqi
Haikou
Suzhou
 Hefei
 ChangSha
 ShenYang
 Harbin
 Qingdao
 Chengdu
Taipei
Zhejiang
Fujian
Being
Hohhot
Nanjing
 WuHan
Guilin
Xian Zhengzhou
 Bangkok
 Cambodia
 North East Thailand
Taiyuan
Yuncheng
Projects Distribution 項目分佈
Urban/Planning Projects 城市規劃
上海吳中路地鐵上蓋綜合體
此地鐵站為上海地鐵某條直線的機場維修站（維修清潔保養地鐵車廂）
為增加都市的緊湊使用提高都市強度。上海市政府在規劃及施工初期即
預留了柱頭。準備為地鐵維修場上後蓋的城市綜合體做準備。我們在此
上蓋基礎上規劃了星級酒店 ，soho 工作室，公寓，鐵道博物館及地鐵公
園等上蓋的板子被打開很大的開口和下面地鐵保養廠做空間上的互動。
全區的商業動線由路面電車串連，增加了吳中路地區的土地利用。	
Increase the Urban density of Wuzhong Rd Metro Station 
The Wuzhong Road Metro Station in Shanghai is located above a
maintenance depot for a certain metro line, which is used for the
repair, cleaning, and maintenance of subway trains. In order to
increase the urban density and enhance the city’s spatial efficiency,
the Shanghai municipal government reserved space for the
development of a mixed-use complex above the depot during the
planning and construction phase. Based on this foundation, we have
planned a star-rated hotel, SOHO workspaces, apartments, a railway
museum, and a metro park. The upper structure of the complex
features large openings that create spatial interaction with the
subway maintenance area below. The entire commercial flow of the
district is connected by surface trams, which further enhances the
本案出發點除了在增加都市土地的利用強度，創造高樓層商業 為
低樓層價值外。亦在將揚州傳統的文化精神做現代性的演繹。 揚
州(舊稱廣陵)素有月亮城之稱。李白，蘇東坡...等都描繪 過揚州。
傳統的揚州舊城則是一片粉牆黛瓦，徽派園林的城市 意象。因此
規劃的意圖在於將揚州傳統的院落園林空間融入商 業街設計。象
徵明月的摩天輪作為整個主綜合體的城市地標。 配置上大量運用
了借景，框景等傳統園林的古典手法創造了商 業區內的空間層
次。從空中新天地徐徐流下的景觀水幕，除了 讓屋頂咖啡與酒吧
充滿了情趣，也創造了送孟浩然之廣陵中“唯 見長江天際流”裡
的詩詞意境。
Urban Complex Yangzhou Gangling, China
The starting point of this project is not only to increase the
utilization intensity of urban land and create high-rise
commercial value for low-rise buildings, but also to
modernize the traditional cultural spirit of Yangzhou.
Yangzhou (formerly known as Guangling) has long been
celebrated as the "City of the Moon," with poets such as Li Bai
and Su Dongpo having depicted its beauty. The traditional old
city of Yangzhou is characterized by its white walls and black
tiles, embodying the urban imagery of Hui-style gardens.
Therefore, the planning intent is to integrate Yangzhou's
traditional courtyard garden spaces into the design of the
commercial street. A Ferris wheel, symbolizing the bright
moon, serves as the urban landmark of the main complex.
The layout extensively employs classical techniques of
traditional gardens, such as borrowed scenery and framed
Tourism Plan for Putian Baitang Lake 
This plan focuses on ecology while integrating history and culture, aiming to create a modern urban-rural landscape
blending commerce and art. Built on lakeside tourism, agricultural tourism, and ancient village preservation, it seeks to
establish a unique, heritage-rich destination showcasing Putian's past, present, and future.1. Ecology and History. Baitang
Lake, the core area, emphasizes ecological protection and cultural resources, creating a harmonious natural and cultural
site. Restoring Sanjiang Wharf’s bustling scenes will evoke a "Little Shanghai" vibe, while its waterways will earn it the title
"Venice of the East.” 2. Modern Commerce and Tradition. The plan features modern commercial districts, luxury hotels, fine
dining, and cultural parks. The themed mall "Impression of Putian" and water stage performances will vividly depict Putian’s
history, offering visitors a rich cultural experience. 3. Lakeside and Agricultural Tourism. Lakeside tourism integrates with
agricultural experiences, combining natural scenery, farming activities, and cultural displays. Visitors can enjoy lake views
from Taohua Island, watch water stage shows, and explore Putian’s rural heritage. 4. Water Stage and Culture.The water
stage, a highlight, uses technology and art to showcase Putian’s history. Taohua Island’s seating provides excellent views,
immersing visitors in Putian’s charm and creating lasting memories.
莆田白塘湖旅遊規劃
本規劃以生態為主軸，結合歷史與文化，旨在打造一個融合商業與藝術的現代城鄉景觀。以湖區旅遊、農業旅遊和古村落保護為三
大支柱，致力於建立一個獨特且富有傳承價值的目的地，展現莆田的過去、現在與未來。1. 生態與歷史 白塘湖作為核心區域，強
調生態保護和文化資源的結合，創造一個自然與文化和諧共存的景點。通過恢復三江碼頭的繁華景象，重現「小上海」的氛圍，而
其發達的水路交通將使其贏得「東方威尼斯」的美譽。2. 現代商業與傳統 規劃中包含現代商業區、豪華酒店、高級餐飲和文化園
區。主題購物中心「莆田印象」和水上舞台表演將生動地展現莆田的歷史，為遊客提供豐富的文化體驗。 3. 湖區與農業旅遊湖區
旅遊與農業體驗相結合，融合自然景觀、農耕活動和文化展示。遊客可以在桃花島上欣賞湖景，觀看水上舞台表演，並探索莆田的
鄉村文化遺產。 4. 水上舞台與文化 水上舞台作為亮點，運用科技與藝術展現莆田的歷史。桃花島的觀眾席提供絕佳視野，讓遊客
沉浸於莆田的魅力中，創造難忘的回憶。 總結 白塘湖的規劃結合生態、歷史、商業和農業，打造一個獨特的旅遊目的地。通過湖
區旅遊、水上表演和現代商業區，展現莆田的文化魅力，為遊客帶來難忘的體驗。
JUSTARCHI – “得體建築” 的哲學 問:JUSTARCHI 這個名字有什麼含義?
答:JUST這個詞蘊含公平、正義、恰當、剛剛好的多重意涵，體現了中庸之道與至 善狀態的價值取
向。做一個得體的設計並非容易之事，無論是公共或私人項目，營 建的過程大部分都是極為昂貴
的成本，如何合理的控制成本又能滿足建築計畫所設 定的目標，需要很多專業經驗的積累。尤其
是在面對宗教性建築的時候，建築並非 僅追求亮麗或設計師個人風格，而是以合理與中肯為核
心，力求滿足用戶需求與環 境條件。以我們在2022年參與的一貫道桃園發一崇德桃園道場為例:其
建設資金來 自於四方信眾，錢財來之不易。道親們非常在意道場的莊嚴性同時又不希望花費太
大，然而大家對於莊嚴的看法是“傳統廟宇”的華麗裝飾風格。弔詭的是這種傳統 廟宇的裝飾風
格造價是不菲的。同時滿足信眾對於“莊嚴”佛堂的要求又要不過分 花費，拿捏到剛剛好的度是
一種極大挑戰與學問。這很有意思，很多時候一個得體 設計的過程是在平衡內在慾望與良知的妥
協過程。	
問:如何將”得體“這些理念落實到建築實踐中?
答:我們從以下幾個層面努力實現:
Question: What is the meaning behind the name JUSTARCHI? 
Answer: The word "JUST" carries multiple meanings such as fairness, justice,
appropriateness, and balance, reflecting the value orientation of the doctrine of the mean
and the state of perfection. Achieving a fitting design is not an easy task. Whether for
public or private projects, the construction process is usually very costly. How to
reasonably control costs while meeting the goals set by the architectural plan requires a lot
of professional experience. This is particularly true when dealing with religious buildings.
In such cases, architecture is not just about seeking brilliance or the designer's personal
style, but rather focusing on rationality and moderation, aiming to meet user needs and
environmental conditions. 
Take, for example, the Ciji Taoist Temple in Taoyuan, which we participated in building in
2022. The construction funds came from devout followers, and money was hard-earned.
The followers cared deeply about the solemnity of the temple but did not want to
overspend. However, their view of solemnity was aligned with the lavish decorative style of
traditional temples. Ironically, this traditional temple style comes with a hefty price tag.
Balancing the followers’ desire for a “solemn” temple while avoiding excessive spending
and achieving the right balance is a huge challenge and an art in itself. This is interesting,
as many times the process of achieving a fitting design is a compromise between inner
desires and conscience. 
1. Just Attitude – 中庸的態度	
問:如何看待都市經濟利益與環境可持續性的平衡?
答:我曾經參加藏系佛法的菩提道次第廣論班6年，也斷續到印度班加羅爾學習了幾 年吠陀文化最
後成了印度的瑜伽老師。其實佛陀所倡導的中道實相觀理念，與儒家 思想的中庸之道不謀而和。
凡事過與不及都是不得體的。在實務界中操作案子，我 們常需要在各種對立的條件與環境下找到
平衡點，諸如造價預算與細緻度，工期， 甚至甲方之間不同的觀點與看法...。落實在都市建築
時，則需要在設計中平衡經濟發 展與環境保護，提供既能促進經濟又能永續經營的方案。對於城
市發展的態度，我 們希望城市不要無限制擴張，而是更緊湊地改造舊市區，通過更有效的規劃實
現自 然與人文的和諧共生。這種緊湊的都市主義不僅可以降低資源浪費，通過合理的規 劃減少對
土地與能源的浪費。洛杉磯與香港就是鬆散與緊湊的極端案例。洛杉磯的	
高碳排放量與香港的城市高效率形成了一個強烈對比。台北動態薄膜與萬華406廣場 國際競圖兩岸
是種緊湊態度的主張，方案描述一種可變建築的理念，像是日本的和 室一樣可當作餐廳客廳起
居，一個空間多種用途。因此公共設施物也可像空白片一 樣被各種不同需求的城市活動所填寫。
建築在城市中被更“緊湊“得體的利用。我 們再另一個緊湊配置嘗試的規劃是”萬華區政中心及
12號公園規劃“。受到荷蘭建 築師mvrdv “清淡都市主義”與farmax(3d城市)概念的影響，該規劃
方案概念“採取 了一個最大化綠化與植被，最小化人造設施物“的策略來降低都市熱島效應，創
造 一個地區性萬華城市之肺。	
Urban Complex Zhengzhou, China 
Mountain, lake, stream, Ocean are main elements of this urban complex.
And the intention of the design is to put sunshine, water, and greenery in
this high density development. The site is divided into north part and
south part. The north site is a shopping street(ocean world) where there is
an exit of underground station in it.The south site is a shopping mall
(Garden hill). The feature of the master plan is that these 2 commercial
districts are surrounded by a serious of office buildings and Soho
apartments. The mall loos like a mountain, it is a vertical urban garden
where there are waterfall, lakes, forests, numerous cafes and restaurants
on it. In north site, the ocean world has a huge glass curtain roof with a
very thin water layer on its surface. Under the glass water roof, it is like
shopping under the sea. The wave and shadow of water is projected on
the underground space.Because Zhengzhou is lacking in greenery open
space, this manmade nature of shopping space create a very exciting
spatial experience in this city. People working and living in these tall
buildings can enjoy this beautiful scenery. Business advantage of the
surrounded office towers and Soho towers are benefit from center
“mountain”and “ocean world”. 
Waterfront Commercial Dstrict planning in Yeangzhou
“The Coliseum” is the main concept of this master plan. In the center of
the site is a big lake for music fountain and water screen film(performing
stage). Around this lake are shopping street(audience section). By means
of putting water performance in the center of this commercial district,
many tourists will be attracted to these shopping streets.
揚州京華城商業步行街 與上海合院 建築 合作
“羅馬鬥獸場”是本商業步行街的規劃出發概念。 中央水面表演場為基地上原
有的河道擴大而成，湖 面面規劃著音樂噴泉與水幕電影。四周圍繞的觀 眾看
臺則被轉化成階梯式的商業餐飲步行街。本 配置因為中央的水舞表演秀場，吸
引了眾多遊客。 創造了四周商業價值的最大化。
上海顓橋商業區開發 地塊開發臨河流，以南洋風情及水街浪漫為主題，將
地塊打造為社區型商業休閒，辦公居住為一體的地區性綜合體
The development of the Zhuanqiao Commercial Area will focus on a
theme of Southeast Asian style and waterside romance, with the plot
situated along the river. The area will be transformed into a regional
mixed-use complex that integrates community-oriented commercial
leisure spaces, offices, and residential areas.
Urban complex in Hefei 
The urban complex planning for Hefei New District covers an
area of approximately 500 acres, integrating residential, office
spaces, SOHO units, an exhibition center, and a shopping mall.
The primary challenge of the project lies in how to activate the
commercial value within the plot, which we refer to as the
"commercial 'Shari'." In the deepest part of the site, we’ve
created a waterfront Venice, bringing the city’s public atmosphere
inside and transforming internal commercial spaces into external
value drivers. The rooftop of the shopping mall has been
designed as an Italian hill town, complete with escalators
providing direct access from the ground floor to the top. This
design strategy turns the high floors into a unique value
proposition, enhancing the overall experience and commercial
appeal of the development. The integration of both functional
spaces and aesthetic elements aims to foster a vibrant, mixed-use
community, blending urban life with leisure and commerce in a
way that attracts both locals and visitors, offering a new model
for urban development.
Urban Complex Yangzhou, China
This This urban design proposal is located in Yangzhou's
Guangling New City, spanning approximately 200 acres,
integrating a mix of commercial, residential, shopping centers,
office buildings, and a waterfront pedestrian street. The project
was part of a competitive design bidding process, with clients
inviting renowned international firms such as SOM and KPF from
the United States, as well as Taiwan's distinguished architect Yao
Renxi Architects. Our firm participated, alongside three other
prestigious design offices. Our concept centered on a circular
waterfront street that weaves through the development, linking
commercial and office spaces while reflecting Yangzhou’s
celebrated water culture. A key element was the "low-rise as a
symbol" approach, keeping buildings under 100 meters in height
to reduce construction and fire safety costs and create a more
intimate, human-scale streetscape. Our design aimed to enhance
the pedestrian experience and foster a sense of community.
However, the Yangzhou municipal government favored the high￾rise, iconic visions from SOM and KPF as symbols of the city's
future. It was surprising, yet revealing, that international firms
effectively aligned with the government's vision of urban grandeur.
This experience highlighted the complex dynamic between design
principles and governmental priorities in shaping urban
landscapes.
揚州廣陵新城城市綜合體規劃
本規劃位於揚州廣陵新城，地塊約200畝，集商業住宅購物中心 寫字樓
水岸步行街為一體。本案為競圖邀標，甲方邀請了美國som 及kpf，台灣
大元姚仁喜建築師。我們也受邀其中，共4家事務所。我們的主張除了
以一個環型水街貫穿整個流線與辦公商業，創造揚州水岸意象之外。主
要提出的構想是以“低層為象徵”，每棟建築控制在100米以下，如此
建造與消防成本大大減少，除此之外街區儘量以人性尺度來打造。然而
甲方是揚州市政府，顯然他們更喜歡som kpf 提出的超高層建築意象來
打造城市名片。很訝異那些外國事務所比我們更抓得住政府的心態。
合肥城市綜合體
合肥新區的城市綜合體規劃佔地約500英畝，整合了住宅、辦公空間、
SOHO單元、展覽中心和購物中心。該項目的主要挑戰在於如何激活地
塊內的商業價值，我們稱之為「商業『沙里』」。在地塊的最深處，
我們打造了一個水岸威尼斯，將城市的公共氛圍引入內部，並將內部
商業空間轉化為外部價值驅動力。購物中心的屋頂被設計成一個義大
利山城，並設有從地面直達頂層的自動扶梯。這種設計策略將高樓層
轉化為獨特的價值主張，提升了整體體驗和開發項目的商業吸引力。
功能空間與美學元素的結合旨在打造一個充滿活力的混合用途社區，
將城市生活與休閒和商業融為一體，吸引當地居民和遊客，為城市發
展提供新模式。此外，規劃中還特別注重綠色生態設計，引入大量綠
化空間與節能技術，打造可持續發展的智慧城市典範，進一步提升居
住與商業環境的品質。
鄭州城市綜合體
本案以高山，湖泊，溪流，海洋為主題，企圖將陽光，水，綠意與空氣帶入此
高密度開 發的城市綜合體。基地分成南北兩地塊，北地塊規劃為鄭州城市地鐵
出入口的商業步行 街(海洋世界)，南地塊作為大型購物中心(花園之丘)。配置的
獨特之處在於商業區 被環狀的辦公與酒店式公寓高樓圍閉起來，形成了一個圍
合性很強的綜合體建築群 . 購 物中心本身被設計成一座山，上面有瀑布水幕，
也同時做為購物中心內部屋頂的採光篷。 山上佈滿了各色各樣的森林酒吧，水
岸餐飲。北地塊的地面層則規劃成一大片地下鐵出 入口的採光頂，上面有一層
薄薄的水，因此水的波動與光影能投射在地面上。商鋪被設 計成像珊瑚礁一
樣。因此游走於地鐵出口商業街區時，猶如置身於海底世界一樣。在綠 化缺乏
的鄭州市，此座如花園般的山丘與海洋世界般夢幻的地鐵商業給這座都市帶來
了 不少驚豔。 在這迷人自然景觀周圍的酒店式公寓與辦公樓生活的每一個人，
在工作之餘都能窺視這 片都市中的人造自然。本案不僅提供了都市中的綠色開
放空間，增加了都市土地利用的 強度，更提高了酒店式公寓與辦公樓的商業價
值與空間品質。	
Urban/Planning Projects 城市規劃
Experiments on compact urbanism
Sustainable approach of urban Development has been identified all over the world.
Human being can’t consume the resource endlessly.China was in the process of
urbanization the past years, the projects proposed that city should be more compact
instead of spread and expanding. The solutions will demonstrate a serious of mobile
architecture that makes cities more compact use.
緊湊都市主義的實驗
Urban Design of 406 Plaza ,Wan Hua District,Taipei
Can we create an urban plaza or facilities which is flexible and transformable that all kind
of urban event and festival can happened in it? Like a blank CD-RW disk ,it can be"written"
with various kind of program.By means of highly effective use of land, this new kind of
urban sustainable strategy is convincible. A new way of “compact city" is created.
Urban Blank for various kind of Urban Events
能填寫各種市民活動的都市空白片
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
能填寫各種市民活動的都市空白片
能否在台北萬華區的406 Plaza 創建一個靈活且可轉變的城市廣場或設施，讓各種城市活動和節慶
都能在此發生？就像一張可重讀寫的CD-RW光碟一樣，它可以“被寫入”各種不同的程序與活
動。透過可變動的多用途構造物增加了高效的土地利用，提供了一種全新的城市可持續發展策略
與“緊湊城市”建築設計概念。	
可持續的城市發展概念的緊湊思想已在全球範圍內廣泛討論。人類不能無止境地消耗資源。過去
幾年，中國正處於城市化進程中，提出的項目建議城市應該更加緊湊，而不是擴散和擴張。這些
解決方案將展示一系列移動建築，使城市的使用更加緊湊。
Changeable Urban Space 可變的都市空間
Dynamic urban space foe festival in Taipei 2.可變的都市空間 - 台北的動態城市空間與節慶設施
Facilities for film performances in Taipei, is the removal of the street on both sides 位於台北電影表演所設計的設施，透過拆除原有建築物兩側的街道，創造出一
of the original building the cortex, creating a new cortex, the cortex is a newSkin, 個全新的建築外殼。這個外殼就像是一個新的皮膚（薄膜）、肌肉（充氣劇
muscle, bone composition, when the skeletal muscle will move along with 院）和骨架（機械結構）的組合，當骨架和肌肉隨著季節、活動和慶典的變化
changes in the skin, when the season, activities, celebrations are not the same 而運動時，這座新建築的外觀也會隨之改變，都市空間也跟著改變。街道呈現
time, The new building will have a different cortical changes, innovation and a fun
colorful space. As night fell the lights inside the building Gradually turn on and 出不同的皮層變化。當夜幕降臨，建築內的燈光逐漸亮起，無論是在哪個區域
everyone in the building where the activity, each person's shadow projected on the 活動的人們，每個人的身影都會被投射到牆上，形成一場影像的盛宴。表皮融
film, will be put on a shadow feast. 合了信息，信息成了建築本身
Taipei 228 Memorial Park Museum Square
Site :The Linear Site is a very important route connecting the Taipei
train station and the 228 memorial Park. Because Taipei is lacking in
public space and there are many existing cultural events in this
area.The Linear pedestrian route serve not only as an infrastructure Taipei Train Station
for various activities but present a new form of the street type.
N
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Urban design of Wan Hua no 21 park and municipal center, Taipei
The urban design for Wan Hua No. 21 Park and Municipal Center in Taipei
transforms the central area of Wan Hua District into a dynamic hub of green space
and civic engagement. This redevelopment replaces the existing vendor’s market,
which will be relocated underground, with a new park and municipal center,
creating a seamless connection between the bustling Long Shan Temple to the
north and the Wan Hua Train Station to the south. 
Recognizing Taipei's need for more public parks, the design emphasizes
maximizing green space by concentrating service facilities in one designated area.
The municipal center comprises two main structures: a municipal building and a
supermarket. These are thoughtfully integrated with the park to create a cohesive
blend of civic, commercial, and recreational spaces. 
A standout feature of the design is the glass tube that links the park, municipal
building, and supermarket. This transparent walkway serves as both a practical
connector and an art gallery, enriching the cultural experience of the space. By
linking the underground vendor's market, Long Shan Temple, and the Wan Hua
Train Station, this continuous business and cultural zone fosters a vibrant urban
environment that accommodates both commercial and religious activities while
providing essential public space. This thoughtful design approach enhances the
area’s functionality and aesthetic appeal, making it a central gathering place for the
community. 
Maximum green open space, Minimum 
manmade foot area
最大化綠地開放空間，最小化人造設施物投影
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
萬華區政中心及12號公園設計
最大化的都市開放空間與最小化的人工占地規劃 萬華 12 號公園及區政中心都市設計市政中心及 12
號公園 這個網站是位於臺北萬華區，供應商的中部地區市場，這將被移到地下，是由一個公園和市
政取代中 心。在北部邊境的網站是龍山寺，一個繁華的地方崇拜這是歷史悠久。在南部邊境的網站
是萬華火車 站。這是一種在一個地區，公園和市政中心將位於重點對商業和宗教活動。 由於臺北公
園，缺乏公共空間的計畫，為 12 號公園指定服務設施應集中在一個特定區域，從而最大 限度地提高
公園的綠地。市政中心分為兩建設:市政建設和一家超市。公園，市政建設和超市連接的 玻璃管，這
也將作為一個藝術畫廊，連接地下供應商的市場，並創建一個連續的商務區龍山寺，萬華 火車站。	
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Urban Design of Suzhou River, Shanghai
The urban zipper concept is revolutionizing urban design by integrating infrastructure with vibrant community spaces. In Suzhou
river area, this idea is being implemented to bridge the river that divides several commercial zones. By constructing
multifunctional bridges, these previously separated areas can be seamlessly connected, fostering both economic growth and
community interaction.Inspired by Florence’s Ponte Vecchio, the proposed bridges will feature covered commercial streets,
providing shelter from the elements and creating a bustling environment for pedestrians and shopkeepers. These structures will
transform the river from a barrier into a unifying element, linking various commercial areas and enhancing the area's accessibility
and vibrancy.The project's primary goal is to unify the fragmented commercial districts, allowing for easier movement of people
and goods. This integration is expected to boost economic activity, as businesses benefit from increased visibility and foot traffic.
Additionally, the aesthetic and functional qualities of these bridges will enhance the urban experience, making Wayaogou a more
attractive destination for residents and visitors.Beyond economic benefits, the urban zipper design promotes social cohesion. The
bridges, with their lively commercial streets, will become social hubs where people can gather, shop, and enjoy leisure activities.
This will strengthen the sense of community and contribute to a more inclusive urban environment. 
Commercial Bridges Connecting the separated area 
連接斷裂地區的商業橋
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
上海蘇州河城市設計
都市拉鏈概念正在通過將基礎設施與充滿活力的社區空間相結合，徹底改變都市設計。在中和
的瓦瑤溝地區，這一理念正在實施，以連接分隔多個商業區的河流。通過建造多功能橋樑，這
些原本分離的區域可以無縫連接，促進經濟增長和社區互動。受佛羅倫薩維琪奧橋的啟發，擬
建的橋樑將設有帶頂棚的商業街，為行人和商家提供遮風避雨的環境，並營造出繁華的氛圍。
這些結構將把河流從障礙物轉變為統一元素，連接各個商業區，提升該地區的可達性和活力。
該項目的主要目標是統一瓦瑤溝分散的商業區，方便人員和貨物的流動。這種整合預計將促進
經濟活動，因為企業將受益於增加的可見度和客流量。此外，這些橋樑的美學和功能品質將提
升都市體驗，使瓦瑤溝成為對居民和遊客更具吸引力的目的地。除了經濟效益外，都市拉鏈設
計還促進了社會凝聚力。這些橋樑及其熱鬧的商業街將成為社交中心，人們可以在這裡聚集、
購物和享受休閒活動。這將增強社區意識，並有助於營造更具包容性的都市環境。	
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Urban complex Planing,Yeangzhou Guangling District
The intention of this urban complex development is not only increasing the
intensity and density of land use but to present the traditional Yeangzhou culture in
modern way. Yangzhou is named as City of Moon, because many poems of
historical Chinese poet had mentioned about moon in Yeangzhou. The images of
old town are white wall black roof tile and traditional Chinese Yeangzhou garden.
Hence, we try to transform the traditional courtyard into this modern commercial
street.The symbolic moon of the wheel is a landmark of the whole urban complex.
There are also many traditional Chinese garden design concepts used in the master
plan to create spatial hierarchy in the shopping street. The water curtain flow starts
from the sky plaza and finally end in the basement floor of the mall to create a
sense of Chinese poetic scenery" the Yangtze River flow to sky!"
Use a poem of Tang Dynasty about moon, canal to create a city
用一首關於月亮與運河的唐詩（送孟浩然至廣陵）去創造一個城市
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
城市綜合體規劃，揚州廣陵區
此城市綜合體開發的目的不僅在於提高土地使用強度和密度，更在於以現代方式呈現傳統
揚州文化。揚州被稱為「月亮城」，因許多中國古代詩人在詩中提及揚州的月亮。舊城的
意象是白牆黑瓦和傳統的揚州園林。因此，我們嘗試將傳統庭院轉化為現代商業街。	
象徵月亮的輪盤是整個城市綜合體的地標。總體規劃中也運用了許多傳統中國園林設計概
念，以在購物街中創造空間層次感。水幕從天空廣場流下，最終匯入商場的地下層，營造
出「長江天際流」的中國詩意景觀。
Transforming an Old Building with Modern Elegance 
This renovation project breathes new life into an old building by integrating
contemporary design elements with functional improvements. The original
exterior walls are replaced with expansive floor-to-ceiling windows, flooding the
interior with natural light and providing unobstructed views of the surroundings.
To enhance both aesthetics and functionality, an additional layer is added to the
exterior—a woven stainless steel mesh that serves as a sunshade and a security
feature. This mesh creates a dynamic facade, offering protection while allowing
light and air to pass through. The mesh is supported by wood-grain printed
aluminum alloy structures, giving the appearance of traditional wooden
frameworks but with the durability and low maintenance of modern materials.The
combination of these elements results in a striking transformation. The building's
new facade, blending glass, metal, and wood-like aluminum, redefines its identity,
making it a standout structure in the area. Inside, the floor-to-ceiling windows
open up the space, creating an airy, expansive environment that connects the
interior to the outside world. This thoughtful renovation not only modernizes the
building’s appearance but also significantly improves its functionality, providing a
fresh, innovative image while retaining structural integrity.
Wearing a new skin of SS wire mesh (S size)
穿一件不鏽鋼金屬外衣（S size)
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
以現代優雅改造舊建築
此翻新項目通過將現代設計元素與功能改進相結合，為舊建築注入新
生命。原有的外牆被替換為落地窗，讓自然光灑滿室內，並提供無阻
礙的周邊景觀。為了提升美觀與功能性，外牆增加了一層編織不鏽鋼
網，既作為遮陽裝置，也具備安全功能。這層網狀結構創造了動態的
外觀，提供保護的同時允許光線和空氣穿透。網狀結構由木紋印刷的
鋁合金支架支撐，呈現傳統木結構的外觀，卻具備現代材料的耐用性
和低維護性。這些元素的結合帶來了引人注目的轉變。建築的新外觀
融合了玻璃、金屬和仿木鋁材，重新定義了其身份，使其成為該地區
的亮點。內部，落地窗打開了空間，創造出通風、寬敞的環境，將室
內與外界連接起來。這項用心的翻新不僅現代化了建築的外觀，還顯
著提升了其功能性，在保留結構完整性的同時，提供了嶄新且創新的
形象。
Wearing a new skin of SS wire mesh (L size)
穿一件不鏽鋼金屬外衣（L size)
Renovation Design of a Five-Story Building in Shanghai: Draping a Stainless Steel
Expanded Mesh
In Shanghai’s Hongkou district, a five-story building has undergone a
transformation using a custom-designed stainless steel expanded mesh. The project
aimed to revitalize the old structure while adhering to budget constraints, opting
for locally fabricated mesh instead of the expensive German GKD woven mesh.The
stainless steel mesh spans from the fifth to the second floor, covering nearly 20
meters. This design had to balance elasticity and structural integrity to ensure the
mesh’s weight would not compromise the facade. The installation required a robust
framework to support the mesh’s weight and maintain its form.The mesh gave the
building a sleek, modern appearance, resembling a delicate veil. At night, interior
lights filtered through, creating dynamic patterns and adding a multi-dimensional
effect, turning the building into a captivating visual spectacle.This renovation has
made the building a standout landmark in the bustling Hongkou district, enhancing
the urban landscape with its modern aesthetic. The project showcases how
innovative design can overcome budget constraints while delivering architectural
excellence. 
在上海虹口區，一棟五層建築通過使用定制設計的不鏽鋼擴張網進行了改造。該項目旨在復興舊建築，同時遵守預算限制，選擇了本地
製造的網狀材料，而非昂貴的德國GKD編織網。不鏽鋼網從五樓延伸至二樓，覆蓋近20米的高度。設計需平衡彈性和結構完整性，以確
保網狀材料的重量不會影響外牆。安裝過程需要一個堅固的框架來支撐網狀材料的重量並保持其形狀。這層網狀材料為建築賦予了簡潔
現代的外觀，宛如一層精緻的面紗。夜晚時，室內燈光透過網狀結構，創造出動態圖案，增添了多維效果。
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
218m High Rise Wearing a double skin
218米雙層表皮超高層建築（與台灣施惟建築師及上海華東院合作）
High Rise Apartment & commercial complex, ,Zhejiang ChangXing, China
This project envisions a 218-meter skyscraper symbolizing the city's new voyage,
drawing inspiration from the graceful form of a sailing ship. The tower primarily
houses residential apartments, where sliding aluminum windows, commonly used
in residential settings, are incorporated. However, such windows typically do not
align with the sleek image of a high-rise structure.To address this challenge, an
additional layer of stainless steel mesh envelops the building’s exterior. This mesh
facade not only enhances the building’s modern aesthetic, creating a clean and
contemporary curtain wall impression but also serves practical purposes. It
provides natural ventilation, essential for residential units, while offering security,
protection, and shade. 
The dual-layer facade thus elegantly reconciles the need for residential comfort
with the iconic image of a high-rise curtain wall, ensuring the building maintains a
sophisticated, modern appearance suitable for its prominent height and urban
context.At the base, the commercial podium is designed as a series of courtyard￾like spaces filled with sky gardens, housing restaurants and cafes. This design
approach addresses the issue of reduced podium volume, as most of the building's
floor area is allocated to the tower. The vibrant, garden-filled podium enhances the
overall urban experience, creating a dynamic interplay between nature and
architecture, and offering a lively, green retreat within the bustling cityscape. 
浙江長興⾼層公寓與商業綜合體
該項目規劃了一座218米高的摩天大樓，象徵著城市的新航程，其設計靈感源自優雅的帆
船造型。塔樓主要以住宅公寓為主，採用了住宅環境中常見的滑動鋁窗。然而，這種窗
戶通常與高層建築的流線型形象不符。為了解決這一設計挑戰，建築外立面增加了一層
不銹鋼網狀結構。這種網狀幕牆不僅增強了建築的現代美感，營造出簡潔而當代的幕牆
效果，還具有實用功能。它為住宅單元提供了必要的自然通風，同時兼具安全性、防護
性和遮陽功能。這種雙層外立面巧妙地平衡了住宅舒適性與高層建築標誌性幕牆形象的
需求，確保建築在顯著的高度和城市環境中保持精緻、現代的外觀。在底部，商業裙樓
被設計成一系列庭院式空間，充滿了空中花園，內部設有餐廳和咖啡館。這種設計方法
解決了由於大部分建築面積分配給塔樓而導致的裙樓體量減少的問題。充滿活力的花園
式裙樓提升了整體的城市體驗，創造了自然與建築之間的動態互動，為繁忙的城市景觀
提供了一個充滿生機的綠色休憩空間。
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Arranging the office spaces within the elliptical 
floor plan 橢圓形辦公空間平面
Sichuan ShengHong office building, China
This project involves a three-story office building in Shehong County, Sichuan
Province, featuring an elliptical shape proposed by the client. The design challenge
lies in efficiently arranging the office spaces within the elliptical floor plan while
leveraging the unique curved characteristics of the ellipse to create a streamlined,
modern facade. 
The building’s elliptical form not only offers a distinctive aesthetic but also
enhances the fluidity of the internal layout, promoting a more dynamic work
environment. The curved surfaces of the exterior contribute to a sleek and elegant
appearance, making the structure a visual landmark in its surroundings. 
Through thoughtful spatial planning and innovative design, this project successfully
integrates functionality with form, resulting in an efficient office space that reflects
the forward-thinking vision of its owners and complements the architectural
landscape of Shehong County. 
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
2012 Shanghai World Expo Oman Pavilion international competition
The unique culture history of Oman is its sailing story, the legend of Sinbada, and
silk road. Unlike other dressing of Islam country, the Omani cap is colorful and
cheerful. This is because of the sailor must recognize each other in the sea by
colorful caps. Hence Omani Cap has become a very unique symbol of Oman in
Arabic world. The competition requirement has asked for a solid citadel for the
symbol of the pavilion. How ever, we think the Omani Cap is much more friendly
and cheerful. And the most important is the cap can present Oman's unique
culture history. The final project is a Cap-like mobile pavilion. After the 6 months
exhibition, It can be resembled everywhere. Its round shape has the min surface
but enclosed a max interior space, therefore Is very cost effective.The double skin
technology is also used in the pavilion to control the optimistic environment.
Omani cap as image of the national pavilion
以阿曼帽子做為國家展覽館象徵
至阿拉伯半島與阿曼國王及皇室簡報的競圖案,上海世博會國際招標
Winning 2nd prize Shanghai world expo Oman Pavilion
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
2010上海世博會阿曼館國際競賽 
阿曼獨特的文化歷史體現在其航海故事、辛巴達傳奇以及絲綢之路上。與其他伊斯蘭國家的
服飾不同，阿曼帽色彩鮮豔且充滿活力。這是因為水手們在海上需要通過彩色帽子來辨認彼
此。因此，阿曼帽成為了阿拉伯世界中阿曼的獨特象徵。競賽要求將展館設計成一座堅固的
城堡作為象徵，然而，我們認為阿曼帽更加友好且充滿活力。最重要的是，阿曼帽能夠展現
阿曼獨特的文化歷史。最終的設計是一個類似阿曼帽的可移動展館。在為期6個月的展覽結
束後，它可以被拆卸並在任何地方重新組裝。其圓形設計以最小的表面積圍合出最大的內部
空間，因此非常經濟高效。展館還採用了雙層表皮技術，以優化內部環境的控制。	
Changhua Fangyuan Township Farmers' Association
The three-story Changhua Fangyuan Township Farmers' Association Building is a
thoughtful blend of local tradition and sustainable design. The exterior prominently
features red brick, a material deeply rooted in the region’s architectural heritage.
This design choice not only symbolizes the local cultural identity but also fosters a
sense of familiarity and belonging, making the building a welcoming presence in
the community. 
Central to the building's design is an eco-core, an open atrium that serves as both a
functional and communal space. This core enhances the building's energy
efficiency by optimizing natural ventilation and temperature regulation. During the
hot summer months, warm air naturally rises and exits through skylights at the top,
promoting effective cooling. In contrast, during winter, the skylights remain closed,
capturing solar heat and creating a greenhouse effect. This process turns the eco￾core into a thermal well that helps maintain warmth inside the building. 
The eco-core also functions as a reception area for visitors and a serene courtyard
for community members. This space encourages interaction and offers a tranquil
retreat within the building, enhancing the overall user experience. The integration
of this eco-friendly feature underscores the commitment to sustainable
architecture, aligning with modern environmental concerns while preserving the
local context. 
The design of the Changhua Fangyuan Township Farmers' Association Building
embodies a harmonious blend of sustainability and cultural sensitivity. By
incorporating locally significant materials and innovative green design principles,
the building provides a comfortable, energy-efficient, and community-focused
environment that resonates with the people of Fangyuan. This approach not only
respects the past but also looks forward, ensuring that the building serves as a
model of sustainable development for the future. 
Use brick mansard work to convey localism
用紅磚砌作牆傳達鄉土地域情感
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
台灣彰化芳苑農會 
三層樓高的彰化芳苑鄉農會大樓，巧妙地融合了當地傳統與永續設計。建築外觀以紅磚為主，這種材料深深植根於該地區的建築傳統。
這一設計選擇不僅象徵了當地文化認同，還營造出一種熟悉感與歸屬感，使這座建築成為社區中一個親切的存在。建築設計的核心是一
個生態中庭，這是一個開放的天井，兼具功能性與社交空間的功能。這個核心通過優化自然通風和溫度調節，提升了建築的能源效率。
在炎熱的夏季，熱空氣自然上升並通過頂部的天窗排出，促進有效的降溫。相反，在冬季，天窗保持關閉，捕捉太陽熱能並產生溫室效
應。這一過程使生態中庭成為一個熱能井，幫助維持建築內部的溫暖。生態中庭還作為訪客的接待區和社區成員的寧靜庭院。這個空間
促進了互動，並為建築內提供了一個靜謐的休憩場所，提升了整體的使用體驗。這一環保特色的整合，彰顯了對永續建築的承諾，既符
合現代環境議題，又保留了當地脈絡。彰化芳苑鄉農會大樓的設計體現了永續性與文化敏感性的和諧融合。通過融入具有當地意義的材
料和創新的綠色設計原則，這座建築提供了一個舒適、節能且以社區為中心的環境，與芳苑的居民產生共鳴。這種方法不僅尊重過去，
還展望未來，確保這座建築成為未來永續發展的典範。
Use enterprise product to create the facade image
用企業產品創造建築立面形象
Innovative Design for Shuter’s New Headquarters
Shuter’s new headquarters integrates architecture, sustainability, and community well￾being through three key concepts: the Shuter Box facade, hybridization with organic
agriculture, and a "Sky Forest" work environment.Concept 1: Shuter Box Facade. The
Shuter Box, a signature product, inspires the building’s facade. A grid pattern with
polycarbonate material creates a lightweight, durable, and light-permeable exterior,
reflecting Shuter’s innovative and eco-conscious culture. Concept 2: Hybridization with
Organic Agriculture.The design blends industry with agriculture, incorporating rooftop
gardens and vertical farms to address future land scarcity. This hybrid model promotes
sustainability and creates a healthier environment for employees and the community.
Concept 3: Sky Forest Work Environment. Inspired by Bali’s courtyards, the office features
open, green spaces, transforming the workplace into a serene "Sky Forest." This natural
setting enhances well-being, reduces stress, and boosts productivity.
Shuter新總部創新設計
Shuter新總部是一個融合建築、永續性與社區福祉的創新項目，圍繞三大核心理念：以
Shuter Box作為外牆意象、建築與有機農業結合，以及打造「天空森林」般的工作環境。
理念一：Shuter Box外牆意象，Shuter Box作為公司標誌性產品，成為建築外牆的設計語
言。網格結構的外牆採用輕盈耐用的聚碳酸酯材料，不僅視覺醒目，還能讓自然光滲透
室內，體現Shuter創新、功能與環保的企業文化。理念二：與有機農業結合，設計打破傳
統工廠單一工業模式，將有機農業融入空間。透過屋頂花園、垂直農場和綠地，應對未
來糧食生產的土地稀缺問題，同時為員工和社區創造更健康、永續的環境。理念三：天
空森林工作環境，設計將辦公空間轉化為第二個家，靈感來自巴厘島庭院風格。行政中
心與公共區域設計為開闊通透的空間，周圍環繞綠意，打造「天空森林」氛圍，提升員
工福祉，降低壓力並提高效率。	
Creating high-floor value at low-floor costs.
Urban complex & Shopping Mall design, Shanghai 
The restriction of traditional shopping mall is that the business value of upper level
is much lower than ground floor level. The roof plan is always equipped with
various kind of MEP system or ignored as a useless space. Instead of traditional
concept of shopping center, the new mall was designed as a huge parking space
wrapping by a linear route on its roof. The benefit of parking on the different level
of roof is that people can directly enter into the mall after parking. That means this
strategy create maximum business profit of the shopping mall. From urban
planning point of view, the land is highly effective used in high density. The d3
shopping mall is not only very realistic for developer but achieve a far max (floor
area ratio maximum) goal.
創造高樓層為低樓層價值
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
傳統大型商業購物中心存在著某些傳統的限制，諸如高樓層之商業價值 不如
低樓層，而屋頂往往做為機電或無用途的閒置空間。本案打破原有 購物中心
的概念 , 購物中心本身猶如一條車道盤旋起來的巨型停車場。 如此帶來最大
的好處是創造了多樓層入口，這意味著人流與商機將被帶入各樓層。因此實
現了購物中心的商業利益最大化。從城市的角度來說，土地被做最高效緊湊
的高密度使用。立體化的購物中心成了非常現實並 且符合商業利益的設計。	
A Riverside Café Inspired by Lotus Leaves in Tamsui
Located along the serene banks of the Tamsui River, this riverside café draws
inspiration from the delicate forms of lotus leaves and flowers. The overarching
design concept mimics the natural elegance of lotus leaves, with glass canopies
serving as rain shelters. These glass "leaves" provide shelter while maintaining
transparency, allowing patrons to remain connected to the river's tranquil scenery. 
The café's structural elements take the form of steel frames, representing the stems
of the lotus leaves. These frames rise randomly from the river's edge, creating an
organic, almost whimsical aesthetic. Each steel stem is anchored and balanced by
three tension cables, ensuring stability through a unique, three-directional
mechanical equilibrium. 
The café's floor features glass panels that reveal the flowing river beneath, offering a
view of the fish swimming below. This connection to nature adds an immersive and
dynamic element to the visitor experience, blending architecture with the natural
world seamlessly. 
The overall design exudes a poetic, almost calligraphic quality, reminiscent of
cursive script—fluid, expressive, and slightly untamed. This poetic and slightly wild
architectural style captures the essence of the natural environment, creating a
harmonious and tranquil space where visitors can relax and enjoy the beauty of the
Tamsui River. 
Lotus leaves style Cafe
荷葉咖啡屋
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
淡水河畔的咖啡館，概念從蓮葉和蓮花的細膩有機形態中汲取靈感。玻璃天篷形似蓮葉，不僅作為遮雨棚，同時保持了與河流和
天空的透明連接。這讓遊客無論晴雨都能欣賞淡水河的寧靜景色，而不會感到與自然環境脫節。玻璃的運用也確保了咖啡館的明
亮與通風，增強了開放感和寧靜氛圍。鋼結構框架象徵蓮葉的莖幹，從河岸自然升起，形成一個動感且充滿趣味的結構。它們的
隨機排列模仿了蓮花的自然生長模式，增添了咖啡館的有機美感。每個鋼結構莖幹由三根張力索固定，不僅提供了結構穩定性，
還為設計增添了視覺節奏，呼應了自然界中的微妙平衡。咖啡館最引人入勝的特色之一是玻璃地板面板，揭示了下方流淌的河
水。這一設計元素讓遊客沉浸於自然環境中，讓他們可以觀察下方的水生生物，並感受到與河流更深層的聯繫。這是一種微妙而
強大的方式，將建築與自然世界融為一體，創造出一種既平靜又引人入勝的多感官體驗。咖啡館的整體設計散發出一種詩意、書
法般的質感，流暢的線條和富有表現力的形態，捕捉了自然環境的精髓，創造出一個既和諧又充滿活力的空間。這裡成為遊客放
鬆、反思並欣賞淡水河之美的地方，同時被一個彷彿是景觀延伸的結構所環繞。	
A two-story guesthouse that looks like a 
single-story building.
看起來像單層樓的二層樓建築
Guest House , Chongming, Shanghai
Located on Chongming Island, an ecological reserve with strict single-story height
limits, this project faced the challenge of designing a two-story guesthouse within
regulations. The solution was a steeply pitched roof, creating a mezzanine level for
guest accommodations while maintaining a single-story exterior appearance. 
The design integrates openings and balconies into the roof for natural light and
visual dynamism. Using a steel structure, double-layered red brick walls, and
weather-resistant wood, the building achieves a warm, rustic aesthetic that
harmonizes with Chongming’s landscape. This approach balances regulatory
compliance with a contextual, welcoming architectural presence.
客舍，上海崇明
這座位於崇明島的建築設計項目，面臨生態保護區嚴格的單層高度限制，卻需設計出兩層
樓的客舍。解決方案是採用陡峭的斜屋頂，在保持外部單層外觀的同時，利用屋頂空間創
造夾層作為客房區域。	
設計中巧妙地在屋頂上設置開口和陽台，引入自然光並增添視覺動感。建築採用鋼結構、
雙層紅磚牆和耐候木材，營造出溫暖質樸的氛圍，與崇明的自然景觀和諧相融。這一設計
既符合法規要求，又創造出與環境相呼應的建築形象。
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
The Modern Redevelopment of Douliu Chongxiu Hall
Douliu Chongxiu Hall holds a significant place in the history of the I-Kuan Tao,
being the first Buddhist hall established by Chen Hongzhen, a revered predecessor
of the Fa Yi Chong De (the largest group within the I-Kuan Tao). This site carries
deep symbolic meaning for followers of the I-Kuan Tao. However, with the
evolving times and the development of Taoist affairs, the original hall faced the
necessity of reconstruction due to its insufficient space. 
The new building is a modern steel-structured Chongxiu Hall featuring an enlarged
Xieshan-style roof, symbolizing a fresh era of development for Fa Yi Chong De and
the Chongxiu Hall. The design incorporates the original hall's imagery by
constructing a new entrance porch that retains and relocates the original mountain
gate. This newly built porch, maintaining the original scale and details, is
embedded within the new structure, preserving the historical emotions tied to the
original Chongxiu Hall. 
The new design ensures that the historical essence of the hall is retained, allowing
visitors from home and abroad to not only admire the grandeur and modernity of
the newly constructed temple but also to connect with the historical relics left by
the early pioneers. The integration of these elements creates a seamless blend of
tradition and innovation. 
By mirroring the imagery of the original Chongxiu Hall in the new entrance porch,
the design preserves the original scale while introducing energy-saving and
ventilation features into the green architecture exterior walls. This thoughtful
integration of past and present reflects the new vitality and forward-thinking
development of Chongxiu Hall, blending historical preservation with modern
architectural advancements, and fostering a deep connection between the past and
the present. 
Preserving historical emotions in the new building
在新造建築中保留歷史情感（與長弘建築師事務所 顏綠呈 合作）
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
斗六崇修堂的現代重建，台灣斗六 
斗六崇修堂在一貫道歷史中佔有重要地位，它是法一崇德（一貫道內最大團體）的尊
貴前人陳鴻珍所建立的第一座佛堂。這個地點對一貫道的信徒具有深刻的象徵意義。
然而，隨著時代的變遷和道務的發展，原有的佛堂因空間不足而面臨重建的必要性。
新建築是一座現代鋼結構的崇修堂，其特點是擴大的歇山式屋頂，象徵著法一崇德和
崇修堂的新發展時代。設計中融入了原有佛堂的意象，通過建造一個新的入口門廊，
保留並遷移了原有的山門。這個新建的門廊，保持了原有的規模和細節，嵌入到新結
構中，保留了與原有崇修堂相關的歷史情感。新設計確保了佛堂的歷史精髓得以保
留，讓來自國內外的訪客不僅能欣賞到新建寺廟的宏偉和現代感，還能與早期先驅留
下的歷史遺跡產生聯繫。這些元素的整合創造了傳統與創新的無縫融合。通過在新入
口門廊中反映原有崇修堂的意象，設計保留了原有的規模，同時在綠色建築外牆中引
入了節能和通風功能。這種對過去與現在的深思熟慮的整合，反映了崇修堂的新活力
和前瞻性發展，將歷史保護與現代建築進步相結合。
A big stairs not only connecting different levels, but 
several as a place for public communication 
大階梯銜接了不同高層的空間同時創造了公共交流場所
Remodeling and expansion of Reach Fine Chemical Restaurant
This project is located in the Reach Chemical Factory area in Jiangmen City, Guangdong
Province. Originally, it was a four-story dormitory building for company employees, with
the ground floor serving as a cafeteria for 50 people. As the company grew and
expanded, the original cafeteria could no longer meet the needs of the staff. The design
task was to expand the cafeteria to accommodate 100 people.In this project, we
envisioned the newly added cafeteria's roof as a rooftop garden, serving as an extension
of the second-floor meeting and reception rooms. This creates the feeling that the indoor
space on the second floor is within a garden on the ground floor. Additionally, one end
of the expanded cafeteria was designed as a large staircase, connecting the rooftop
garden with the outdoor basketball court on the ground floor. The staircase also serves as
a grandstand for the basketball court.The original height difference between the first and
second floors formed a continuous open space. After the construction was completed
and the facilities were put into use, the large staircase became a perfect place for
employees to relax and take breaks, as well as an ideal venue for company events and
employee gatherings. The use of the rooftop garden also addressed the increasingly tight
land situation within the factory area. The completion and use of this project
demonstrated that, with a minimal budget, the renovation provided employees with a
pleasant leisure space while also creating a new corporate image. 
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
瑞期精細化工宿舍樓餐廳擴建，廣東江門 
本案位於廣東省江門市瑞期化工廠區內 , 原來為四層樓的公司員工 的宿舍樓 , 一樓原為 50 人的餐廳。隨著
公司的成長與擴編 , 原有餐 廳已不敷使用。因此設計的任務在將餐廳加建為 100 人使用。在本 案我們把加
建的餐廳屋頂設想成一屋頂花園作為二樓會議室與會客 室的延伸。因此在二樓的室內空間感覺像是在一樓
花園裡的。最後 加建的餐廳的一頭被設計成可停留的大階梯。 它串聯了餐廳頂部的 屋頂花園及一樓的戶
外籃球場 , 同時大階梯也作為籃球場的看臺。 原本 一二樓兩個不同的高差形成了一片連續性的開放空間。
最後建 造完成開始使用後 , 大階梯成了員工休息停留 , 公司辦員工晚會的 絕佳場地。屋頂花園的利用也解
決了廠區土地日益緊張 的狀態。完 工使用後的事實 , 證明了本案以極低的預算改造案 , 提供了一個員 工愉
悅的休閒空間同時 也打造了一個新的企業形象。	
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Cavity wall
雙層牆
Reach Fine Chemical Lab Building, Guang Dong, China
The laboratory is located within the Reach Factory Area in JiangMen, Guangdong.
The first floor houses the wastewater treatment plant and administrative offices,
while the third and fourth floors are chemical testing laboratories. The exterior
walls are constructed from blue bricks and wooden louvers, with sliding aluminum
windows behind the louvers. As a result, the laboratory benefits from extended
periods of natural ventilation throughout the year. 
A notable feature of the construction is the use of the double-layer wall method, a
traditional technique from the Xin Hui region of Guangdong. This method has been
widely used in the region for its excellent thermal insulation properties, especially
in harsh climates. The inner layer of the outer wall is made of red brick, which
meets the thickness requirements set by Chinese national standards, while the
outer layer consists of locally produced blue bricks approximately 5 cm thick. The
air layer between the two walls provides effective insulation for the building. 
Other materials used in the construction include low-cost washed stone combined
with glass curtain walls. The total cost of the project was approximately 2 million
RMB, making it a highly cost-effective building. 
Upon completion and throughout its operation over the course of the year, the
laboratory has proven to be a low-energy-consumption building with minimal
reliance on air conditioning. The chemical researchers working in the laboratory
also greatly appreciate the natural ventilation environment. 
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors The project is also published in TA magazine (台灣建築月刊）
雙層本案外牆的內層背牆為中國國家規範所規 定之厚度紅轉牆,外層牆 則為當地所生產厚約 5cm 之青磚。兩層牆之間的空氣層,替本建 築物創造了
良 好的隔熱條件。其他部分的材料則為造價低廉的洗石子搭配玻璃帷幕。 本案總造價約兩百萬人民幣,是經濟的建築。 完工後在一年四季的運轉中
證明了本案是極少使用空調的一棟低能耗實驗樓。而在實驗樓工作的化工研究人員也非常享受在自然通風工作的環境。	
本實驗樓位於廣東江門瑞期廠區內 , 一樓為汙水處理機房與行政辦公室 , 二三四 樓為化工實 驗室。外牆由青磚與木百葉所組成,百葉背後為推拉鋁
窗。因此在 一年四季實驗室有很長的時間採用通風對流。構造特點在於採用廣東新會本土 雙層牆形式的砌法,此工法在氣候嚴峻 的內地流傳已久,它
提供了良好的隔熱 保溫。
Simultaneously enjoy luxury city life and moun￾tain silence 同時享受山野寂靜與都會奢華 
Tourism design & Planning, Zhejiang , China 
This tourism planning project is located in a secluded mountain paradise,
surrounded by stunning landscapes, offering a unique blend of nature and luxury.
The highlight is the use of a small mountain stream, transformed with an ecological
dry stone method into a large pond. Two-thirds of the pond is a lotus flower pool,
while the remaining third features a swimming pool and poolside bar, providing
both relaxation and leisure.The design combines two contrasting environments.
The swimming pool and bar evoke the vibrant energy of urban life, while the lotus
pool and natural surroundings foster tranquility. 
This fusion of luxury and nature offers visitors the best of both worlds. The lively
energy of the city coexists with the peaceful beauty of the mountains, creating a
one-of-a-kind experience. The project is a perfect retreat for those seeking
adventure and relaxation in a stunning setting. 
獨山坑旅遊規劃，中國浙江 
這項旅遊規劃項目位於一個隱秘的山間天堂，四周環繞著令人驚嘆的自然景觀，將自然
與奢華完美融合。項目的亮點是利用一條山間小溪，通過生態乾石法將其改造成一個大
型池塘。池塘的三分之二區域為荷花池，其餘三分之一則設有游泳池和池畔酒吧，為遊
客提供放鬆與休閒的空間。設計結合了兩種截然不同的環境。游泳池和酒吧喚起了都市
生活的活力與熱情，而荷花池與自然環境則營造出寧靜與平和的氛圍。這種奢華與自然
的融合，為遊客提供了兩全其美的體驗。城市的活力與山間的靜謐美景共存，創造出獨
一無二的體驗。這個項目是尋求冒險與放鬆的人們的理想之地，讓人在壯麗的自然環境
中享受難忘的時光。	
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Architecture itself is a big toy
建築本身就是個大玩具
Wood Pavilion of Love valley ,Zhejiang Jiangshan, China 
The Parent-Child Wooden Fun Pavilion is a captivating architectural project
designed as a giant toy, blending fun and functionality. Its unique facade serves as
an interactive playground, featuring climbing walls and various play surfaces that
invite visitors to engage physically with the building. Every hour, three delightful
wooden characters, known as the "Wooden Fun Trio," emerge from small toy
houses on the facade, greeting park visitors in a whimsical, Disney-like manner.
This dynamic feature adds an element of surprise and joy, making the building
itself an entertaining spectacle. 
One of the most exciting features of the pavilion is the indoor forest exhibition hall
on the upper levels. This space is designed to educate and enchant, with a slide
that connects directly to the rooftop terrace of a classroom below. This playful
element fosters a sense of adventure and seamlessly integrates learning with fun,
making the educational experience more engaging for children. 
The exterior of the pavilion is rich with playful expressions, allowing visitors to
witness others climbing, sliding, and interacting with the facade. This interaction
transforms the building into a lively stage where people become part of the
performance, adding to the overall vibrancy of the environment.The Sky Theater at
the top of the pavilion creates a serene dialogue with the surrounding natural
elements.The pavilion’s design is reminiscent of Hayao Miyazaki’s "Howl's Moving
Castle," exuding a sense of surrealism and boundless imagination. This
architectural marvel promises to be a magical and unforgettable destination for
families, sparking wonder and creativity in both children and adults. 
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Like a castle on the move, this building rises from the earth with the whimsy of a
dream, a fusion of imagination and surrealism. Its form is ever-changing, as
though it could float away with the wind, just like the moving castle from Hayao
Miyazaki's animation. Crafted from towering wooden beams, the structure is
both mighty and playful, inviting those who enter to lose themselves in a world
of fantasy. 
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
親子木趣館是一個迷人的建築項目，設計如同一座巨大的玩具，融合了趣味與功能性。其獨特的外牆作為一個互動式遊樂場，設有攀
岩牆和多種遊玩表面，邀請遊客與建築進行身體互動。每小時，三個可愛的木製角色，稱為「木趣三重奏」，會從外牆上的小型玩具
屋中出現，以迪士尼般的奇幻方式向公園遊客打招呼。這一動態特色增添了驚喜與歡樂的元素，使建築本身成為一場娛樂盛宴。展館
最令人興奮的特色之一是位於上層的室內森林展覽廳。這個空間旨在教育與吸引遊客，設有一條滑梯，直接連接到下方教室的屋頂露
台。這一趣味元素營造了冒險感，並將學習與樂趣無縫結合，使教育體驗對孩子們更具吸引力。展館的外部充滿了趣味表達，讓遊客
可以觀看其他人攀爬、滑行並與外牆互動。這種互動將建築轉變為一個活躍的舞台，讓人們成為表演的一部分，增添了整體環境的活
力。展館頂部的天空劇場與周圍的自然元素形成了一種寧靜的對話。展館的設計讓人聯想起宮崎駿的《霍爾的移動城堡》，散發出一
種超現實主義和無限想像的氛圍。這座建築奇蹟將成為一個充滿魔法且令人難忘的家庭目的地，激發孩子與成人的好奇心與創造力。	
Entrance design go Guang Ling Mall ,YangZhou, China
A leaf of glass, so fine, so clear, It bends and curves, then disappears, 
Into the earth, where shadows meet, A quiet door beneath our feet. 
Steel bones hold it—strong, yet light, Like branches that reach for the night, 
While glass, like dew, catches the sky, A fragile whisper, a gentle sigh. 
The leaf, translucent in the dusk, Catches the light, then shivers—brushed 
By winds that never seem to fall, It pulses soft, as if to call. 
Its edges sharp, yet soft as air, It holds a world that’s hidden there, 
A portal wrapped in quiet grace, A secret passage, a quiet place. 
Through it, the world outside may gleam, A reflection in a silver stream— 
A piece of sky, a touch of green, A leaf that floats, unseen, serene.
Glass leaf-entrance of underground mall
通往地下商業的玻璃葉子入口
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
廣陵購物中⼼入⼜設計，中國楊州 
一片玻璃，精緻而清澈，彷彿是大自然的一部分。它彎曲、流轉，最終融入大
地，與陰影交織成一扇靜謐的門，悄然隱藏在我們腳下。這片玻璃不僅是入口，
更是一種詩意的存在。鋼鐵的骨架支撐著它，堅固卻輕盈，像是伸向夜空的枝
條，充滿力量與柔美。玻璃如露珠般捕捉天空的光芒，映照出周圍的世界，像一
聲溫柔的嘆息，輕輕觸動人心。在黃昏的微光中，這片半透明的葉子捕捉著光
線，隨著微風的輕撫而顫動。風似乎永不停止，而玻璃則隨著風的節奏輕輕脈
動，彷彿在低語，呼喚著人們進入這個隱秘的空間。它的邊緣銳利，卻又柔軟如
空氣，彷彿承載著一個隱藏的世界。這是一個被靜謐與優雅包裹的入口，像一條
秘密通道，通向一個安靜而神秘的空間。透過這片玻璃，外面的世界閃爍著光
芒，如同銀色溪流中的倒影。它映照出一片天空、一抹綠意，彷彿一片漂浮的葉
子，無形卻寧靜，讓人感受到自然與建築的完美融合。
Ashram house Art of Living, Kunshan, China 
The project, situated in a vacant lot within a factory area in Kunshan, Jiangsu, is
designed as a yoga practice space for employees to purify their breathing through
the "Art of Living," a yoga breathing technique originating from India. As the
factory plans to relocate to Zhejiang, the structure is designed to be modular,
allowing it to be disassembled and reassembled at the new site after a year. 
To accommodate this need, the small wooden house is constructed with movable
components for easy relocation. Unlike traditional Western cabins, this design
intentionally conveys an Eastern aesthetic. The facade reflects the three-part
imagery of traditional Chinese architecture: earth, body, and heaven. The elevated
base provides insulation, ensuring a comfortable yoga practice on the floor. The
middle section (body) forms the main practice space, while the roof (heaven)
serves as a climate-controlling element. 
The south-facing windows are designed in a sawtooth pattern, optimizing seasonal
sunlight. During summer, the high-angle sunlight is blocked, keeping the interior
cool, while in winter, the low-angle sunlight penetrates to provide warmth.
Additionally, fully openable wooden doors create a seamless connection between
the interior and exterior, especially in spring, summer, and fall. This design fosters
a harmonious blend of indoor and outdoor spaces, allowing practitioners to feel
immersed in nature, enhancing the yoga experience with a sense of supreme joy
and tranquility. 
傳統精神，現代呈現(S size) 
Modern presence, traditional spirit (S size)
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
⽣活的藝術瑜伽⼩⽊屋，中國昆山 
本案位於江蘇昆山某廠區的一塊空地內，廠區的業主是生活的藝
術老師（生活的藝術是一種流傳自印度的瑜伽呼吸法），空間的
主要的功用在於做為員工淨化呼吸法的瑜伽練習之用。	
由於廠區計畫搬遷到浙江，因此在建造完成一年之後將被移到新
的基地上使用。為了解決此問題，小木屋所有構件的都被設計為
活動組合式。不同於西方的小木屋，本案在建築意象上想刻意的
表達一種東方氣質。立面猶如中國傳統建築的三段式意象：地，
升起的台基有助於地板隔熱，躺在地上練瑜伽方不覺的冷。中段
（身），為木屋的主要練習空間。天（帽子），為控制氣候的屋
頂表皮。鋸齒狀的南向採光窗設計能夠達到冬暖夏涼的效果，夏
季時天氣炎熱，不希望陽光射入室內，但冬季剛好相反，陽光射
入室內提供所需熱量。	
因此本案巧妙的利用了夏季陽光角度較高，冬季陽光角度較斜的
特點，使冬季的陽光可以直射進室內，而夏季的陽光無法射進室
內。此外可以完全敞開的木門外牆，在夏季與春秋轉換季節時可
創造一個沒有邊界的建築。室內外連城一氣，猶如置身自然之中
練習瑜伽，是一種至高的喜樂與享受。	
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors The project is also published in TA magazine (台灣建築月刊）
Architecture practice
Modern presence, traditional spirit (L size)
傳統精神，現代呈現(L size) 
Longhu hotel, Anhui, China
In the global age, is the modernization of Chinese architecture still remain an
important issue in modern Chinese Context? The owner of the project love the
beauty of old Chinese architecture, and want to mix the traditional and modern
Elements together. Hence, we have tried a symbolic strategy. The main reception
hall of the hotel is the only mass appeared in the site. The building is transparent
and humble, because the beautiful mountain and the lake are real star. The
architecture in this site is to fit in this beautiful scenery. Inside the glass reception
hall, a Chinese cap is drifting in the space poetic. The double skin with mobile
louver of the hall is designed to control the best interior microclimate.
在全球化的今日 , 中國 建築的現代化是否還是個重要的課題 ? 雖然我們不需要刻意穿著
唐裝告 訴大家 : 我是華人 , 從建築藝術的角度 , 傳統文化 , 仍是一件值得 探求的事。本
案的業主熱愛傳統建築的美感 , 初期討論時提出了“中西 合璧”的想法 , 因此在形式操
作的手法上採取符號的策略 , 在景致如畫 的萬佛湖建築的態度是低調而透明的 , 自然山
水才是真正的主角 , 由於 主接待大廳是唯一露出于地面景觀上的量體最後建築形式被處
理成像密 斯一樣的玻璃盒 , 盒裏俏皮的飄著一片中國宮殿的帽子 , 除了符號上的 意義它
主要用來製造建築表皮的緩衝層。在暴冷暴熱的安徽省雙層智慧 型表皮的玻璃宮殿隨著
環境 , 控制最合宜的室內氣候。	
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
aluminum panel
(steel frame
structre)
aluminum louver
50/30 metal tube
50/60 metal tube
ss wire mesh
barrier
steel tube 20 40
frame
ss wire mesh
deck
aluminum glass
window
aluminum glass
window
aluminum glass
window
Reach Fine Chemical Headquarters, Bangkok, Thailand
The design project for a factory-office complex in Bangkok addresses both the
company's corporate culture and the challenges posed by the tropical climate. The
building’s image is defined by its use of white aluminum panels, which help
mitigate heat gain from the intense sunlight. The facade is designed with an
extensive use of louvered panels and natural ventilation louvers, facilitating air
circulation to achieve the goal of a low-carbon building that minimizes the need
for air conditioning. 
The architectural form of the entire complex is inspired by the elegance and grace
of a noble white bird, reflecting a sense of lightness, sophistication, and
technological innovation. This design not only provides a comfortable and
sustainable working environment but also embodies the company’s commitment to
environmental responsibility and modern aesthetics. The harmonious integration of
these elements creates a factory-office complex that is both functional and
symbolic, standing as a landmark in the region for its innovative approach to
sustainable design in a tropical setting. 
 曼谷鐵皮屋工廠(under construction)
“Metal skin” factory in Bangkok
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Reach精細化⼯廠，泰國曼⾕
這座位於曼谷的廠辦綜合體設計項目，既體現了企業文化，也應對了熱
帶氣候的挑戰。建築外觀以白色鋁板為主，有效減少強烈陽光帶來的熱
量積聚。外牆設計大量使用百葉板和自然通風百葉，促進空氣流通，實
現低碳建築的目標，從而減少對空調的依賴。	
整個建築群的造型靈感來自高貴白鳥的優雅與靈動，展現出輕盈、精緻
與科技創新的氛圍。這一設計不僅提供了舒適且永續的工作環境，也體
現了企業對環境責任與現代美學的承諾。這些元素的和諧融合，創造出
一個兼具功能性與象徵意義的廠辦綜合體，成為該地區熱帶環境中永續
設計創新方法的標誌性建築。
The original design featured three sloped roofs, which were chosen for their optimal
structural efficiency based on the column spacing and roof span. However, near the
completion of the project, the client hired a feng shui consultant, who suggested
that the three pointed roofs resembled tiger claws and were located in a feng shui
"tiger transformation" zone, which was believed to be highly unfavorable. 
To address this issue while maintaining budget efficiency, we adjusted the roof
design to meet the feng shui requirement of a flat roof. In doing so, we incorporated
a simple beam belt above the roofline, which was a cost-effective solution. This
modification preserved the architectural trajectory of the original design, retaining
elements of the previous form. The result was a façade that maintains its visual
richness and depth, while staying within budget constraints. The design now blends
traditional architectural principles with modern constraints, offering a harmonious
and balanced solution to both aesthetic and cultural requirements. 
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
贏得法國人的設計 Hutchinson Fab house 822
Hutchinson S.A. - Industrial Rubber Pioneer and Workplace of Deng Xiaoping
During His Early Years in France
Hutchinson, a French industrial rubber company, is a world leader in the field and
also supplies vibration-damping pads for high-speed rail in China. Fab House 822
is a multifunctional space that serves as a factory tour site, product showroom,
conference venue, information exchange hub, and training center. The first Fab
House was designed in France by the renowned designer of the Eiffel Tower,
followed by another in the United States. We (Shanghai Weng Lion Architectural
Design Firm) are honored to have undertaken Hutchinson's third Fab House project
worldwide, located in Suzhou. 
Blending Western Industrial Tradition and Local Chinese Culture
The project’s French president initially requested that we retain the Eiffel-inspired
materials and industrial spirit while also integrating Chinese elements into the
space and architecture. The goal was to create a space that not only preserved
Hutchinson’s traditions but also reminded the company of its commitment to the
Chinese market, embracing a space that continues its Western industrial legacy
while respecting regional culture. To achieve this, we based the material selection
on the elements used in the Eiffel Tower era, such as polished concrete, wood,
structural steel, and black iron panels, while also incorporating traditional Chinese
garden aesthetics. This included multi-layered steel archways, wooden colonnades
with Hutchinson’s damping pad foundations, and thin steel and wood frames in a
new Chinese traditional style, all articulated through Western modern industrial
materials. 
A Flexible and Dynamic Multifunctional Space
The core of the Fab House space lies in the lobby on the first floor, designed with a
Chinese spirit, and the nearly circular main exhibition hall on the second floor. To
maximize flexibility, the exhibition stands are designed on wheels, allowing them
to glide freely on tracks, similar to small trains. Depending on the timing and
activities, the space can transform into a spacious social area or a large event
venue when the stands move to the edges. The circular main exhibition area is
defined by a series of wooden colonnades fitted with Hutchinson damping pads,
creating a layered and hierarchized space while emphasizing fluid movement.
Passing through the central circular plaza and wooden pillars, guests can access
different functional areas and corners. This design provides a space that balances
flexibility and freedom with functional areas that cater to both public and private
needs. 
The first Fab House was designed in France by 
the designer of the Eiffel Tower, and we had the 
honor of designing the third one globally, 
located in Suzhou.
Winning French Approval with Design
埃菲爾鐵塔設計師在法國設計第一間，我們在蘇州設
計世界第三間
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
法國哈⾦森⼯業橡膠製品有限公司哈⾦森企業-人類橡膠的發明者，也是鄧小平早年旅法時期曾經工作過的地方。做為全球最大工業橡膠供應商之
一也是國內高鐵減震墊的提供方。 fab house 822 主要的功能在 集參觀工廠 產品展示 會議 信息交流與教育訓練 為一體的多功能屋。第一間
fabhouse 在法國，由著名的艾菲爾鐵塔設計師所設計。 第二間在美國，我們（上海翁獅建築設計事務所）有幸承接哈金森在世界的第三間 蘇州
fabhouse。	
既保有 哈⾦森 西⽅⼯業傳統精神 同時 又融入在地 蘇州傳統⽂化 項目的法國總裁對我們一開始提出的要求：除了希望我們延續艾菲爾設計的材料
A8 與工業精神 也希望我們能在空間與建築設計中加入中國的元素-在保有哈金森傳統同時，又能提醒企業不忘自己在中國市場：一種能夠延續自身
西方工業傳統，同時又尊重地域文化的空間。 為此在設計材料的運用上我們以艾菲爾當時所採用的元素，如 抛光混擬土 木頭 型鋼與 黑鐵皮 為
基礎 同時融合了中國傳統的園林空間 如具層次性的鋼索圓拱門，帶著哈金森減震墊基礎的木柱廊道，以鋼及木頭做成的中式傳統薄骨架。一種
西方現代工業材料所詮釋的新中式傳統精神。	
彈性與流動性的多功能空間 整個fab house的靈魂空間除了入口1樓具有中式精神的lobby 便是2樓近似圓形的主展場。為了保持空間彈性的最大化
我們將展台設計成帶輪子 像小火車一樣在展場上的鐵軌上可以自由的滑動。隨著時間與活動的不同 展場空間在小火車展台移到邊緣時可變身為
A8 一個寬敞的交誼空間 或 大型發布會場所。界定中央圓形主展場的是一連串帶著哈金森減震墊的木柱廊，除了創造了空間的層次性與主從性也暗
示了空間的自由流動感。透過中央圓形廣場穿過木柱，賓客可自由的通向空間的各個機能與角落。一個兼具彈性與自由同時又照顧到公共/私密 的
功能性空間。
展台安裝包括輪子，類似於移動的火車，
以創造一個靈活的主空間。在柱子下方是
軸減震墊，為哈金森賣給中國高速列車車
廂中使用產品。
The booth installation includes wheels,
resembling a moving train, to create a
flexible main space. Under the
columns are axle damping pads, the
400 9500 6001600 1200 200 2400 600 11400
44600
6002400 1700 600 8400 2002200 600 speed train carriages.
same as those used in Chinese high-

 
  
        


 


 



 
    
     
电插座明细表
符号 內容
 13A 双电插座底由地坪饰面离地300mm 
 13A 双电插座底由地坪饰面离地1200mm 
 13A 双电插座底由地坪饰面离地高度见立面
 13A 防水双电插座底由地坪饰面离地300mm 
 13A 防水双电插座底由地坪饰面离地1200mm 
 电脑网络插座底由地坪饰面离地 
  电脑网络位平地插座 5700 4900 600 5400 600 1300 8800 1300 600 2700 1400 600 6200 5700 13A 平地电插座 Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors 45800
 LION WENG ARCHITECTS 上海翁狮设计师事务所 室内 .建筑 .都市 .景观
project
苏州哈金森
client drawn no date job no title
 LION WENG ARCHITECTS 上海翁狮设计师事务所 室内 .建筑 .都市 .景观
project
苏州哈金森
client drawn no date job no title
32300
5500 2400600 3300 2700 1150 1500 350 1300 450 1500 1550 1200 1500 800 700 1500 800 2900 600
   
5400 2600 600 8800 200 7200 200 1800 200 5200
32200
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Architecture+Interiors
Interior remodeling project, Taipei
In a breathless moment, the home unfolds—Soft as a whisper, still as a forgotten dream. 
Air flows gently through open arms, Walls that know no need to speak, 
But open wide to the sky, Where clouds drift lazily in their eternal dance. 
The floor, bare and humble,Wears the mark of time, 
Wood worn smooth like the hands of an old friend, Carrying the scent of forests far away. 
A place where the earth’s pulse. Is felt beneath each step, 
And silence, thick as morning fog, Wraps the room in its quiet embrace. 
Windows spill light like the first kiss of dawn, Soft and tender, it weaves through the space. 
A Zen feeling style space full of peace & comfort
靜謐與舒適的佗寂風住宅
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
室內改造項⽬，台北
一個屏息的瞬間，家緩緩展開— 輕柔如耳語，靜謐如被遺忘的夢。	
空氣輕柔流過敞開的懷抱，牆壁無需言語，卻向天空敞開，	
雲朵在其中慵懶地飄蕩，跳著永恆的舞蹈。	
地板，簡樸而謙遜，刻畫著時間的痕跡，木質光滑如老友的雙手，	
帶著遠方森林的氣息。在這裡，大地的脈動，在每一步下被感知，	
而寂靜，濃如晨霧，將房間包裹在它安靜的懷抱中。	
窗戶灑下如初吻般的光，景美溪的氣味滲入室內，柔和而溫柔。
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Interiors
In a space designed with the concept of "Wabi-Sabi," the dialogue between outdoor scenery and
indoor space is seamless and harmonious. Large openings frame the natural landscape, inviting
light and views into the interior. The interior partitions are opened as much as possible,
maximizing the sense of visual layering and extension. Within the limited 50-ping residential
space, we have created the value of an 80-ping space.
在一個以「佗寂風」概念設計的空間中，戶外景觀與室內空間的對話是流暢而和諧的。大型開口框住了自
然景觀，將光線與景色引入室內。室內的隔間儘量被打開，視覺的層次感與延伸性被最大化的安排。在有
限50坪的住宅空間我們創造了80坪空間的價值感。
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
U+U+ Furniture Mall, Nnanton, China
The design of the grand atrium in the 120,000 square meter home furnishing
shopping center in Nantong, Jiangsu, serves as a central hub connecting the north
and south shopping areas. This multifunctional space is not only a transportation
junction but also a prime venue for showcasing the mall's offerings, hosting
marketing campaigns, events, and exhibitions.The atrium features a unique design
with floating platforms that appear to hover within the vast space. These platforms,
crafted from steel structures, are ingeniously designed to give the illusion of being
as thin as paper. The delicate, paper-like edges enhance the lightness and elegance
of the design, creating a dynamic and visually striking environment.These floating
platforms accommodate a variety of commercial uses, including cafes and
performance spaces, bringing vibrancy and energy to the atrium.
Drifting paper for activities in the mall
12萬米平方家具商業購物中心 
120,000 square meter home furnishing shopping center
漂浮在空中的紙片創造了各種活動
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
U+U+ 家具商城，中國南通
位於江蘇南通的12萬平方米家居購物中心，其挑高50米的中庭設計作為連接
南北購物區的核心樞紐。這個多功能空間不僅是交通節點，更是展示商城產
品、舉辦營銷活動、展覽和活動的主要場地。中庭設計概念想呈現“薄如紙
片”的漂浮平台，彷彿懸浮於廣闊的空間中。這些平台由鋼結構打造，邊緣
的結構與鋁合金包板巧妙設計使其看起來薄如紙張。精緻如紙的邊緣西部，
增強了設計的輕盈與優雅，營造出充滿動感且視覺震撼的環境。這些漂浮平
台可容納多種商業用途，包括咖啡廳和表演空間，為中庭注入活力與能量。
Spiral stairs inspiring from an ear ring
以耳環設計為靈感的旋轉樓梯
1851 Club, Shanghai cooperate with Longtsai Design 
A swirl of metal, a dance of light— The staircase rises, soft as night. 
Each step curves, a tender glide, A gentle spiral, side by side. 
Like an earring, it loops and bends, Its form a circle, without end. 
A curve that whispers, and then unwinds, A rhythm that echoes. 
It holds the air between its turns, Like a jewel that quietly yearns 
To touch the sky, to kiss the ground, To lift us up, without a sound. 
Its edges gleam, its shape so fine, A sculpted arc, a silver line. It moves as
a song, or a secret tune, A whispered promise beneath the moon. 
The steps are soft as they embrace, Each one a pulse, a breath, a trace— 
Of things unseen, of moments near, A quiet motion, calm and clear.
上海1851會所，上海四川北路 與龍采設計 吳清義 合作
金屬的漩渦，光的舞動，樓梯升起，柔軟如夜。每一步彎曲，輕柔
溫柔的螺旋，並肩而行。像耳環般環繞彎曲，它的形狀無盡無休。	
曲線低語，然後舒展，節奏在腦海中迴盪。它在轉彎間托住空氣，	
像一顆靜靜渴望的寶石，觸碰天空，親吻大地，無聲地將我們托起。	
它的邊緣閃耀，形狀精緻，雕刻的弧線，銀色的線條。它如歌般移動，	
如秘密的旋律， 月光下低語的承諾。台階輕柔地擁抱，每一步都是脈搏、
呼吸、痕跡—看不見的事物，臨近的瞬間，安靜的動作，平靜而清晰。
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
Temple design is also the best embodiment of the spirit 
of the Universal Gate Chapter.
佛院設計亦是普門品精神的最佳體現
Taoyuan Chongde Buddha Hall 
The design project for the Taoyuan Chongde Buddha Hall, one of Taiwan's Nine
Great Halls of Yiguandao, skillfully integrates traditional religious architecture with
modern elements to create a space that is both solemn and inviting. The layout
features a grand hall, a main shrine, and side wings that accommodate classrooms,
meeting rooms, offices, and lounges. This arrangement ensures that the facility
serves various functional needs while maintaining a tranquil and respectful
environment conducive to learning and reflection. 
The Buddha Hall also functions as a regional center for Yiguandao's activities, with
the main hall capable of accommodating up to 1,600 people. To address the issue
of echo within such a large space, the ceiling is designed with three sound￾absorbing cavities, effectively minimizing acoustic disturbances and enhancing the
auditory experience during ceremonies and events. 
At the heart of the main shrine, three prominent Eastern sages are enshrined:
Buddha Shakyamuni representing Buddhism, Laozi symbolizing Taoism, and
Confucius embodying Confucianism. This trinity reflects Yiguandao’s philosophy of
the unity of all religions, emphasizing the shared origins and teachings of these
major faiths. The shrine stands as a beacon of inclusivity and universal harmony,
showcasing Yiguandao's commitment to promoting global unity and spiritual
coherence. 
While preserving the traditional solemnity and grandeur of a religious hall, the
design incorporates modern touches to attract and engage younger generations.
Contemporary design elements, such as sleek lines, vibrant yet harmonious color
palettes, and dynamic architectural forms, infuse the space with a sense of vitality
and modernity. These additions aim to create an environment that not only honors
Yiguandao’s rich cultural and spiritual heritage but also resonates with the
aesthetics and sensibilities of today’s youth. The result is a dynamic and inclusive
space that bridges the past and present, inviting all visitors to partake in a shared
spiritual journey. 
發一崇桃園崇德佛堂 建築設計部分與長弘建築師事務所 顏綠呈合作	
桃園崇德佛院的設計項目，作為台灣一貫道九大佛堂之一，巧妙地融合了傳統宗教建築與現代元素，創造出一個既莊嚴又親切的空間。整體
布局包括一座宏偉的大殿、主殿以及側翼，側翼設有教室、會議室、辦公室和休息區。這樣的安排確保了場地能夠滿足多種功能需求，同時
保持一個寧靜且尊重的環境，適合學習與反思。佛堂同時也是一貫道活動的區域中心，主殿可容納多達1,600人。為了解決如此大空間中的回
音問題，天花板設計了三個吸音腔，有效減少聲音干擾，並提升儀式和活動中的聽覺體驗。在主殿的核心位置，供奉著三位重要的東方聖
賢：代表佛教的釋迦牟尼佛、象徵道家的老子，以及體現儒家思想的孔子。這三位一體的設計反映了一貫道「萬教歸一」的哲學，強調這些
主要信仰的共同起源與教義。主殿作為包容與和諧的象徵，展示了一貫道推動全球團結與精神共融的承諾。在保留傳統宗教殿堂莊嚴與宏偉
的同時，設計中也融入了現代元素，以吸引並連結年輕一代。現代設計元素，如流暢的線條、鮮明而和諧的色彩搭配，以及動態的建築形
式，為空間注入了活力與現代感。這些設計旨在創造一個不僅尊重一貫道豐富文化與精神遺產，同時也能與當今年輕人的美學和情感產生共
鳴的環境。最終成果是一個充滿活力且包容的空間，連接過去與現在，邀請所有訪客共同參與一場共享的精神之旅。
Experiments on Compact Urbanism / Architecture Practice / Interiors
paint1 塗料1
paint2 塗料2
paint3 塗料3
paint4 塗料4
paint5 塗料5
A11 paint3 塗料3
paint4 塗料4
獨立 paint5 塗料5 飲水機
獨立
飲水機
Marble1 大理石1
Marble2 大理石2
Marble2 大理石3
Marble2 大理石4
Marble5 大理石5
Marble6 大理石6
Quarry Tile 地毯石英磚
Mosaic Tile 馬賽克
Decoration Board 實木條紋裝飾板
Decoration Board 木皮2（橡木）
Decoration Board 木皮3（胡桃）
Wallpaper 1 牆紙1
Wallpaper 2 牆紙2
Wallpaper 3 客製印刷牆紙3
Aluminum Pannel 1 鋁板
Wallpaper 2 牆紙2
所有天花為耐燃一級材料
貼墻紙或木皮之背襯板為耐
燃一級6mm矽酸鈣板+6分木
心板
E14
獨立
飲水機
獨立
飲水機
 得體設計 
JUSTARCHI 得體設計 
JUSTARCHI 
3F 平面/牆面粉刷及立面索引圖 3F 平面/牆面粉
A04 刷及立面索引圖
A04
剖立面
E01 E01
w70*h120*d18
綜合消防箱
參考用
綜合消防箱
w70*h120*d18
1F入口大門詳圖 1F入口大門詳圖 3F經理休息室入口大門詳圖 5F大禮堂入口門詳圖 1F餐廳門詳圖 1F餐廳門立面詳圖
5F大禮堂天花詳圖 E16 E16 E16 E16 E16 E16
E14
3F經理休息室入口平面詳圖 E16
E14
E16 3F經理休息室入口大門立面圖 E16 2F圖書室入口立面圖
E16 得體設計 
E14 13F電梯廳天花詳圖 JUSTARCHI 
 得體設計 
JUSTARCHI 
5F大禮堂入口門立面圖 E16
E14
B1/2/4/5 F電梯廳天花詳圖 E14 祖師祠與三聲殿交界處天花詳圖 E14 E16
Interior Projects 其它室內完⼯案例
Mansion in Shenyang Mansion in Shenyang
S House Chief Design 陳馥郁 Bread shop, Shanghai Chief Design 陳馥郁
X House Chief Design 陳馥郁
Restaurant ,Yangzhou Chief Design 陳馥郁
S House Chief Design 陳馥郁
Gym ,Nanjing Design 陳馥郁
Restaurant ,Yangzhou Chief Design 陳馥郁 Restaurant ,Yangzhou Chief Design 陳馥郁